Add document with snapshot testing tips (#305)
Babylonpartners/ios-playbook: Cookbook/Technical-Documents/SnapshotsTips.md

# Snapshot Testing tips

## What are snapshot tests?

> We're testing visual layer of our apps by using snapshots. Snapshots in our case are images of screens and UI components. They are stored in PNG files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We're testing the visual layer of our apps with snapshot tests. In our case snapshots are images of screens and UI components. They are stored in PNG files.
```

> We're using [SnapshotTesting](https://github.com/pointfreeco/swift-snapshot-testing) library from pointfree to record and compare our snapshots.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We're using the [SnapshotTesting](https://github.com/pointfreeco/swift-snapshot-testing) library from pointfree to record and compare our snapshots.
```

> This kind of tests help us catching any regressions in visual appearance. For example they are very useful when working on a component which might be used on many screens.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This kind of tests helps us catching any regressions in visual appearance. For example they are very useful when working on a component which might be used on many screens.
```

## Tips

### Building UI

Until we adopt [SwiftUI previews](https://nshipster.com/swiftui-previews/), snapshots are the fastest way to work iteratively on new UI. 

> Using snapshot tests as feedback mechanism when building UI is much faster than compiling, launching full app, and verifying appearance only then.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using snapshot tests as feedback mechanism when building UI is much faster than compiling, launching the full app, reaching the desired page and state, and verifying appearance only then.
```

Author: Nice, making it seem even more cumbersome. I like it very much. 😄

> Sample workflow for adding a new screen can look like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An example of a workflow for adding a new screen can look like this:
```

1. **Initial setup**

>       - Add files for a new screen from following templates: BentoBox and RendererSnapshotTests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Add files for a new screen from the `BentoBox` template. Make sure to tick the "Include Tests" box
```

Author: Seems like `BentoRendererSnapshotTests` template is still a thing, so I'll reference both options.

Reviewer: It is (it uses the same files), but since you were mentioning a new page using `BentoBox` is the preferred option. The single test template exists only for when you don't add the tests initially but only afterwards

>     -  Set `recordMode` to `true` in snapshot test - you'll be making a lot of changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    -  Set `recordMode` to `true` in the snapshot test case - you'll be making a lot of changes.
```

> 2. Build UI in [renderer](https://github.com/babylonhealth/ios-playbook/blob/master/Cookbook/Technical-Documents/Architecture.md#renderer) based on state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Build the UI in the [`Renderer`](https://github.com/babylonhealth/ios-playbook/blob/master/Cookbook/Technical-Documents/Architecture.md#renderer) from the current `State`, by 🔁 **repeating the following steps until done**:
```

>     - 🔁 **Repeat until done**: make your changes small and run snapshot test to record any significant changes ("[Test again](https://github.com/babylonhealth/ios-playbook/blob/1a88e2e0090aee3128df70f84dddb7c038f7f15b/Cookbook/Technical-Documents/XcodeTips.md#testing)" shortcut is very handy here). Verify changes by checking newly recorded snapshot. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Make some small changes
    - Run the snapshot tests to record any changes (the "[Test again](https://github.com/babylonhealth/ios-playbook/blob/1a88e2e0090aee3128df70f84dddb7c038f7f15b/Cookbook/Technical-Documents/XcodeTips.md#testing)" hotkey is very handy here)
    - Verify the results by manually checking the newly recorded snapshots (You will find them in the `__Snapshots__` folder at the same path of the tests file)
```

> 3. Once ready set `recordMode` to `false` in snapshot test and make sure to commit image for reference.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Once ready set `recordMode` back to `false` in the snapshot test and make sure to commit the snapshots to make the tests pass on the CI.
```

### Reviewing snapshot tests in PRs

> It's important for us to review new snapshots and snapshot changes during code reviews. GitHub UI doesn't make it easy - PNG images with snapshot files are by default collapsed when you're viewing PR changes. Here's a handy bookmarklet you can use to open all those snapshots at once. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's important for us to review new snapshots and snapshot changes during code reviews. GitHub UI doesn't make it easy: PNG images with snapshot files are by default collapsed when you're viewing PR changes. Here's a handy bookmarklet you can use to open all those snapshots at once. 
```

1. Drag the link to your bookmarks bar.

[[GitHub] show rich diffs](https://github.com/babylonhealth/ios-playbook)

> 2. Update address with the JS snippet:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Update its address with this JS snippet:
```

```js
javascript:Array.from(document.getElementsByClassName('btn%20btn-sm%20BtnGroup-item%20tooltipped%20tooltipped-w%20rendered%20js-rendered')).forEach(function(button)%7Bbutton.click()%7D);
```

> To test it you can check this [PR](https://github.com/babylonhealth/ios-playbook/pull/303/files) - it contains a few images with diagrams.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To test it you can check this [PR](https://github.com/babylonhealth/ios-playbook/pull/303/files), as it contains a few images with diagrams.
```

*Looks like GitHub doesn't allow JS links, that's why instruction has two steps.

### Testing with localization

> It's possible to use snapshot to verify that screens look correct with real world data and localized copies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's possible to use snapshot tests to verify that screens look correct with real world data and localized copies.
```

> On one hand it means that snapshot will fail when we update a copy, on the other hand it makes sure that someone will check whether this screen still looks correct after a copy change.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On one hand it means that snapshot tests will fail when we update a copy, on the other hand it makes sure that someone will check whether this screen still looks correct after a copy change.
```

> To do that you'll need to have translations available in tests. Setting this up involves switching bundle(s), for example see `TestAppointmentLocalizationBundleUpdater`.

Reviewer 2: Also it requires string files to be _referenced_ by test bundle. We do that by adding string file (Localizable.strings) using a reference instead of making a hard copy of the file. This way we have the same string file used by the app referenced by multiple test bundles

Author: Added this step to the description. 👍

### Testing configurations

> Before adding a snapshot test consider is it worth to test all possible device combinations for a given state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before adding a snapshot test consider if it's worth it to test all possible device combinations for a given state:
```

> Before adding a snapshot test consider is it worth to test all possible device combinations for a given state.

Author: ```suggestion
Before adding a snapshot test consider if it's worth it to test all possible device combinations for a given state.
```

> Let's that say we implement 2 secondary states for a new screen - loading and error state. 3 devices x 2 states x 2 visual styles = 12 new snapshots. It's often the case that the secondary screens only display screen's title, a loading or empty state component, maybe a few components which are already tested in primary state snapshots.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's say that we implement 2 secondary states for a new screen - loading and error state. 3 devices x 2 states x 2 visual styles = 12 new snapshots. It's often the case that the secondary screens only display screen's title, a loading or empty state component, maybe a few components which are already tested in primary state snapshots.
```

> Let's that say we implement 2 secondary states for a new screen - loading and error state. 3 devices x 2 states x 2 visual styles = 12 new snapshots. It's often the case that the secondary screens only display screen's title, a loading or empty state component, maybe a few components which are already tested in primary state snapshots.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's that say we implement 2 secondary states for a new screen - loading and error state. 3 devices x 2 states x 2 visual styles = 12 new snapshots. It's often the case that the secondary screens only display the screen's title, a loading or empty state component, and maybe a few components which are already tested in the primary state snapshots.
```

> The lower-level components for loading and error states are already pretty well tested, so sometimes a single snapshot per device for a state like this may be enough. In this example the number of snapshots would go from 12 to 4 and we could still be pretty confident that UI works fine in those states.

Reviewer 2: I'd argue that if we are reusing component for rendering loading/empty/error state then we shouldn't test these states in the individual screens. Essentially we only test position of spinner and localisation of error messages. It would be nice if there would be a way just to test relevant things like navigation bar which can have different state depending on the screen state (i.e. navigation bar items being disabled). At the same time it might be that snapshot test is not the best tool for this and just writing a simple unit test is better. That's probably what we should do more - write more unit tests for renderers and less snapshot tests. But that's a separate discussion, just wanted to raise it.

> The lower-level components for loading and error states are already pretty well tested, so sometimes a single snapshot per device for a state like this may be enough. In this example the number of snapshots would go from 12 to 4 and we could still be pretty confident that UI works fine in those states.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The lower-level components for loading and error states are already pretty well tested, so sometimes a single snapshot per device for a state like this may be enough. In this example the number of snapshots would go from 12 to 4 and we could still be pretty confident that the UI looks fine in those states.
```

> Keep in mind that number of snapshots can explode very quickly and can harm running time of tests. If you record a lof of snapshots, then it's also possible that not all of them will be checked during code reviews.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Keep in mind that the number of snapshots can explode very quickly and can harm the running time of tests. If you record a lot of snapshots, then it's also possible that not all of them will be checked during code reviews.
```

# Snapshot Testing tips

## What are snapshot tests?

We're testing the visual layer of our apps with snapshot tests. In our case snapshots are images of screens and UI components. They are stored in PNG files.

We're using the [SnapshotTesting](https://github.com/pointfreeco/swift-snapshot-testing) library from pointfree to record and compare our snapshots.

This kind of tests helps us catching any regressions in visual appearance. For example they are very useful when working on a component which might be used on many screens.

## Tips

### Building UI

Until we adopt [SwiftUI previews](https://nshipster.com/swiftui-previews/), snapshots are the fastest way to work iteratively on new UI. 
Using snapshot tests as feedback mechanism when building UI is much faster than compiling, launching the full app, reaching the desired page and state, and verifying appearance only then.

An example of a workflow for adding a new screen:

1. Initial setup

>       - Add files for a new screen with "Bento Box" template. To get renderer test file tick "Include Tests" box there or add it separately with "Bento Renderer Snapshot Test" template.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    -  Add files for a new screen with "Bento Box" template. To get renderer test file tick "Include Tests" box there or add it separately with "Bento Renderer Snapshot Test" template.
```

[[GitHub] show rich diffs](https://github.com/babylonhealth/ios-playbook)

2. Update its address with this JS snippet:

```js
javascript:Array.from(document.getElementsByClassName('btn%20btn-sm%20BtnGroup-item%20tooltipped%20tooltipped-w%20rendered%20js-rendered')).forEach(function(button)%7Bbutton.click()%7D);
```

To test it you can check this [PR](https://github.com/babylonhealth/ios-playbook/pull/303/files), as it contains a few images with diagrams.

*Looks like GitHub doesn't allow JS links, that's why instruction has two steps.

### Testing with localization

It's possible to use snapshot tests to verify that screens look correct with real world data and localized copies.

On one hand it means that snapshot tests will fail when we update a copy, on the other hand it makes sure that someone will check whether this screen still looks correct after a copy change.

To do that you'll need to have copies available in tests. Setting this up involves:

- Adding a **reference** to strings file ("Localizable.strings") in test target (instead of making a hard copy of the file). This way the strings file used by the app can be referenced by multiple test bundles.

> - Switching bundle(s) in tests, for example see `TestAppointmentLocalizationBundleUpdater`.

Reviewer 4: 💭 @emeseuk This part need to be taken into consideration when you update the way localization is handled during your SwiftGen integration. Not sure it will have a big impact before/after the integration tbh, but you might still need to take that into account when you'll write the custom template we'll use for SwiftGen strings, and then check if there's anything to update in this documentation regarding that after your ticket or not

Reviewer 5: Thank you very much for pointing this put @AliSoftware!

Let's say that we implement 2 secondary states for a new screen - loading and error state. 3 devices x 2 states x 2 visual styles = 12 new snapshots. It's often the case that the secondary screens only display screen's title, a loading or empty state component, maybe a few components which are already tested in primary state snapshots.

> The lower-level components for loading and error states are already well-tested, so sometimes a single snapshot per device for a state like this may be enough. In this example the number of snapshots would go from 12 to 4 and we could still be pretty confident that the UI looks fine in those states.

Reviewer 6: [nit] I don't think a hyphen `-` is required for `well tested`.
